Hey, I want some help planning out some work on this Elata app called NeuroFlight. So as of right now, it's just a game hooked up to biofeedback where you do a dogfight, and then at the end of it, you can see your metrics, your calmness throughout the flight, throughout the dogfight. What we want to do long term is we want to pivot this game to be more like a game that something like neurodiversion children would use for brain training, something like ADHD or autism. So separately, we're doing research there. Another co-worker is, colleague. But we want to essentially, we need to look through the source code and help me plan out how I can change things. For right now, we mostly just want to make the UI look better, UI improvements, make it look more natural, ways to improve the gameplay, kind of like small, high OR things to just improve the gameplay overall because I'm not really a game player. I'm not really a game developer. I don't play as many games. So I do want you to look through the codebase. I'm going to send you my brain dump of things I'm thinking about changing. I'll send you some screenshots too. Yeah, and I would also add, we kind of have any real research on affective computing and biometrics for real-time pilots. Like that's another thing we should research a little bit and consider in addition. So yeah, you should research the stuff too related to like neurotech, ADHD, autism games for children. We'll plan that out. We'll want to plan out real research into affective computing and biometrics for real pilots too, see if there's any metrics or root-level things like metrics around biometrics for flight that could somehow be added. All we'd want it to be is something like a game people play, probably helps them with their focus, whatever we can do. Another aspect is, well, the game does initially support EEG. We really want to downplay that quite a bit because we're shifting focus on a lot of it to really be much more so the RPCG package we have, which I can also send you a link to so you can learn more. So, that's kind of the high level plan. I'm introducing this to you to all of this for context. What we're initially going to want to do, though, is just make the game as it is while someone else is reaching it much, much more pleasant, look nicer. And I'm definitely gonna need your help there, because I think the main thing is that the game just needs significantly more assets to look better, look more lush. It looks very barren now. We'll want ways to have more polish just to make the game feel more fun. And I do want to look at ways we could either find assets that are Creative Commons that are good enough to add, or additionally, if there's AI tools we can use to generate 3D assets that will work within 3DJS that won't slow things down too much, it'll still be performing in a browser, that's certainly relevant. So that's the high level goal. I'm going to try and think of other contexts I can give you. It doesn't look like the Neuroflight repository is currently indexed, so for now we might need to do more high-level planning until it's fully indexed, but I will send you the GitHub URL of it because it's public. And then I'll send you, you know, the Alotta SDK is public. And again, the focus for now, although we're going to keep the RPG support, we want, I mean, we're going to keep the EEG support, we want to downplay it and mainly do our RPG and respiration within this context. So I'll send you my brain dump of rough notes I had going through the app, ideas, vibes, things I went through just replaying it because I haven't touched it in a while. I'll send you screenshots of it, and I'll give you links to the docs for the Elata documentation as well as anything else here that's relevant. Yeah, that's the general idea. Let's keep going.

https://github.com/wkyleg/neuroflight
https://github.com/Elata-Biosciences/elata-bio-sdk

Neuroflight Notes Brain Dump

Off the cuff
- Better typography
- To easy to hit enemy after a bit
- Make UI look less AI slop
- Make plane render correctly
- Need better assets on the map
- We need to remove EEG when only using webcam
- We should have difficulty levels for gameplay
- Clicking outside should close modals
- We should emphasize EEG less
- Should pulsing sync to hear rate or flight mechanics more?
- What things can we take from Affective computing real world cases for flight
- What are really easy quick wins in regard to making this a better 3JS app?
- Score in flight may be broken
- How can we make score more interesting?
- How can we make more gamification overall?
- Consider changing fonts in the UX
- Everything needs to be way less EEG centric overall
- Remove switch aircraft thing, just one good plane for now
- Need to show camera while playing
- Need indicators for signal strength
- Take best practices for Neurotech connection flow from existing apps
- Better use of vertical space in levels and different things at different altitude
- Better experience turning without pivoting up and down (is this Yawl?) maybe this maybe it is better to be harder here. Or jsut simple
- More animations
- Cursor thing that looks different
- The real plane asset isn't showing up in the UI or present, it's just a cone
- The game needs to be way prettier and beautiful

Links:
- This could be good for generating assets
- https://studio.tripo3d.ai/?utm_source=google&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=23454269928&utm_adgroup=191253967363&utm_content=tripo+3d&gad_source=1&gad_campaignid=23454269928&gbraid=0AAAAA_N1cpueinP0C8rt51gX0UxpXZOHv&gclid=Cj0KCQjwz9_QBhD_ARIsADnSCfAQ9kR-5LNfwDhaE97ytta5r_0fgtTHs5Cqs660aMmKIqWSi777XI0aAmCNEALw_wcB&category=featured&model_type=all&recommended=recommended&use_case=all
* Cool flight game someone vibe coded: https://tinyskies.vercel.app/


QUestions:
- Where should we take art direction?

For later:
- Can/should we add music
- Can we improve heart rate aspect somehow?

Thought for 1m 24s
This is a strong direction. The core move should be: stop presenting NeuroFlight as “EEG dogfight demo” and turn it into “camera-first neuroadaptive flight training.” EEG can remain as an advanced device mode, but the default should be rPPG, respiration, HR/HRV, signal quality, and lightweight focus/calmness scoring.
I looked through the public repo enough for a first planning pass. I could not clone it directly inside the sandbox because DNS resolution to GitHub failed, but I was able to inspect the GitHub repo, README, file structure, and several key source files through the browser. The repo is a Vite/React/TypeScript/Three.js game with Zustand state, Recharts post-session analytics, Web Audio, and Elata SDK packages for EEG, BLE, and rPPG. The README already frames it as a 3D flight simulator with AI dogfighting, EEG/rPPG biofeedback, procedural environments, post-flight analytics, and browser-native rendering. The current SDK repo also confirms the strategic split you want: EEG browser APIs, EEG Web Bluetooth, and rPPG as separate packages; importantly, rPPG works in Safari/iOS where Web Bluetooth does not, while EEG BLE is Chrome/Edge/secure-context dependent. Your own Elata materials also support this repositioning: Elata’s current stack explicitly includes HR, HRV, respiratory rate, blink/PERCLOS/gaze stability, mood/cognitive state, and optional neural signals; that is exactly the product surface NeuroFlight should lean into.

My blunt read
The game’s main problem is not the biofeedback idea. The main problem is that the game fantasy, interface hierarchy, sensor UX, and visual world are all competing instead of reinforcing each other.
Right now it looks like a clever prototype: dark cyber cockpit, sparse low-poly world, post-hoc charts, “EEG Headband” everywhere, and a dogfight loop that appears too mechanically simple once you understand it. That is fine for a hackathon; it is not yet good enough as an Elata flagship app.

The best near-term version should feel like:

A beautiful browser flight-training game where your camera quietly measures physiological state and shows how calm focus affects control, aim, and recovery.
Not: “connect brainwave device to shoot Spitfires.”
That gives you a cleaner bridge to pilots, ADHD/autism research, consumer biofeedback, and Elata’s SDK pitch.

1. Immediate product positioning
Rename the internal mode hierarchy around Flight Training, not “dogfight.”
Keep “NeuroFlight” as the app name. Use modes like:

Mode	Purpose	Sensor emphasis
Free Flight	low-pressure exploration, sensor calibration, tutorial	camera optional
Focus Course	fly through gates, hold altitude, smooth turns	rPPG/respiration
Dogfight	combat challenge; still useful but not primary	rPPG + optional EEG
Training Report	post-session performance and physiological review	all sensors
This gives you a path toward children/neurodivergence without promising treatment. For now avoid language like “ADHD therapy” or “autism training” until the research work is rigorous. Say attention training, self-regulation, calm focus, adaptive difficulty, and biofeedback gameplay.
The research supports being careful here. Serious games for ADHD show promise, but the literature is heterogeneous; one 2025 systematic review identified 37 studies across 22 ADHD games and noted the field still needs better content analysis and design specificity. A 2025 review of serious games as digital therapeutics found evidence for improvements in attention, hyperactivity/impulsivity, social skills, and executive functions, while also noting variation across intervention types. For autism, gamified interventions may help social interaction and communication skills, but the literature still calls for stronger randomized controlled trials and more comprehensive game design work.

So: build the game mechanics now; defer claims.

2. Highest-ROI work for the next sprint
A. Make the app camera-first
Change the connection flow copy and UI order:
Current feel:

EEG Headband
Camera rPPG
Better:
Camera Biofeedback
Track heart rate, breathing, and signal quality from your webcam. No wearable required.
Connect Camera
Then below, smaller:
Optional EEG Headband
Add brainwave metrics if you have a supported Muse-compatible device.
This aligns with the SDK and browser compatibility reality: rPPG is the broadest path; EEG BLE is cool but fragile and browser-dependent. The Elata SDK README says rPPG is the camera-based browser package, while EEG BLE requires Web Bluetooth and secure contexts; Safari/iOS do not support that EEG BLE workflow.
Concrete UI changes:

Replace “EEG Headband” as the first visible device card with “Camera Biofeedback.”
Hide EEG metrics unless EEG source is active.
Rename “SOURCE: RPPG” to human-readable “Biofeedback: Camera.”
Add a small webcam preview tile during play; make it collapsible.
Add signal quality states: Good, Low light, Move less, Face not centered, No pulse lock.
Show “Camera active; data stays on-device” somewhere in the connection flow.
Your own marketing copy says the SDK runs locally, browser-side, and raw sensor data need not leave the device; this is exactly the trust message that should appear in the app.
B. Fix the visual world before adding more systems
The screenshots show the central defect: the world is too empty, too flat, and too visually “prototype.” The code already has a MapRegistry with scatter layers for desert assets; desert includes rocks, cactus, buildings, towers, mesas, dunes, ruins, and wrecks. The right question is not “can we add assets?”; it is “why do the assets not create an authored landscape?”
Do this before any deeper gameplay overhaul:

Move from random scatter to authored landmarks. Add 6–10 memorable placed objects per map: airfield, canyon gate, radar tower, ruined temple, crashed bomber, oasis, lighthouse, cargo ship, island runway.
Add altitude bands. Low altitude should have detail and danger; medium altitude should be navigational; high altitude should have clouds and vistas.
Add fog, color grading, and atmospheric perspective. The barren look can be turned into style if distance haze and lighting are intentional.
Improve object density near the player path. Random assets 7,000 units away do not matter. Put things where the player actually flies.
Use silhouettes. In flight games, readability comes from silhouettes: towers, mesas, airships, rings, smoke columns.
A small number of good assets placed well will beat hundreds of scattered generic assets.
C. Fix the aircraft problem
You noted “plane render correctly” and “real plane asset isn’t showing up; it’s just a cone.” The code’s aircraft registry already points the Spitfire to /assets/aircraft/british_spitfire_low_poly/scene.gltf and contains multiple aircraft definitions, including Wright Flyer, Cessna, Celera, IL-28, UFO, sci-fi plane, and Boeing 737. Asset loading is handled by GLTFLoader with caching in AssetManager.
This likely means one of three things:

the GLTF path is wrong relative to Vite/GitHub Pages base path;
the model loads but scale/rotation/materials make it invisible or wrong;
PlaneController.loadModel() falls back to a primitive when load fails.
First engineering ticket: make Spitfire rendering bulletproof. For now remove aircraft switching from the visible UI and ship one excellent plane. Keep the registry internally, but stop exposing it.
D. Make scoring meaningful
Your note says “score in flight may be broken.” I agree that the scoring model looks incomplete for dogfight. ScoreManager currently appears oriented around rings: passing a ring increments rings, combo, best combo, and score; score is 100 * comboMultiplier, while elapsed time and average speed are tracked. Dogfight kills/shots are tracked elsewhere in DogfightManager, but score may not be integrating combat well enough.
Replace the score with a composite:

Metric	Example points
Hit enemy	+50
Kill enemy	+500
Maintain lock/aim for 3 seconds	+100
Smooth turn / low jerk	+50
Low-altitude pass	+100
Calm recovery after arousal spike	+150
Stable breathing interval	+100
Avoid damage for 30 sec	+200
Accuracy bonus	multiplier
Difficulty bonus	multiplier
Then the final report can say:
“Your best performance came during low-arousal, steady-heading intervals. Aim stability dropped during high-arousal spikes.”
That is much more Elata-native than a generic “score: 0.”
3. UI art direction
I would not take this toward generic “AI cyberpunk.” It needs a stronger tradition of aviation instrumentation, because that gives you instant legitimacy.
Best direction:

Analog aviation + modern biometric overlay
Think:
WWII / Cold War flight instruments;
clean Swiss grid;
NASA mission-control telemetry;
Apple Fitness-style post-session clarity;
subtle Elata purple/cyan accents;
no fake hacker UI.
The current type treatment has a vintage military display vibe, but it veers into “game jam HUD.” Keep some of the amber/cyan palette, but use it with restraint.
Recommended visual language:

Headers: a strong condensed aviation face; something like IBM Plex Sans Condensed, Barlow Condensed, Archivo Narrow, or Saira Condensed.
Body/UI: Inter, IBM Plex Sans, or Geist.
Numeric telemetry: JetBrains Mono, IBM Plex Mono, or Berkeley Mono if licensed.
Reduce letter-spacing by 30–50%; the current wide tracking makes everything feel artificial.
Use fewer neon borders.
More panels with subtle depth, not glowing rectangles everywhere.
Make the report page lighter in information hierarchy: “Flight,” “Body,” “Focus,” “Recovery.”
In other words: less Blade Runner terminal; more instrument-rated pilot dashboard designed by Apple.
4. Gameplay improvements that do not require becoming a real game studio
You need better “juice.” Flight games live or die by feedback.
Quick wins
Hit feedback: screen shake, hit marker, enemy spark/smoke, short sound cue.
Near-miss feedback: subtle whoosh when enemy bullets pass near you.
Aim assist reticle: show when the player is within a good firing cone.
Enemy state clarity: “searching,” “evading,” “attacking,” “damaged.” The game already appears to expose aiState, distance, and dot-forward in HUD state; use that in debug/dev or in a polished way.
Difficulty levels: Beginner, Standard, Ace.
Shorter loops: 90-second default sessions are better for demos than open-ended play.
Objective prompts: “Hold calm altitude for 10 sec,” “Track target,” “Recover breathing,” “Avoid stall.”
Contrails and smoke: extremely high visual ROI.
Cloud gates: fly through cloud rings or thermals.
Camera smoothing: make turns feel cinematic; add small FOV widening with speed.
Control simplification
For non-gamers and future children/neurodivergent audiences, dogfight sim controls are too much. Keep full keyboard controls as “Advanced,” but add a simplified mode:
Mouse / pointer controls pitch and yaw.
A/D or arrows roll.
Auto-throttle by default.
Space fires.
Optional “assisted flight” stabilizes roll and prevents ground impact.
Your note about “turning without pivoting up and down” is probably the control model mixing pitch/roll/yaw in a way that feels aerodynamically plausible but not fun. For your audience, fun beats fidelity.
5. Biofeedback mechanics that actually fit flight
Do not make “calm = always better.” That is too simplistic. Dogfighting should involve controlled arousal: alertness without panic.
Use a three-zone model:

State	Interpretation	Game effect
Under-aroused	low engagement	slower target lock, muted score
Optimal focus	calm but alert	stable aim, bonus multiplier
Over-aroused	stress spike	reticle drift, recovery challenge
This is where affective computing literature helps. A 2024 systematic review specifically looked at HRV for pilot mental workload detection and machine-learning workload systems, framing HRV as a candidate tool for detecting workload in real-flight contexts. Another 2024 F-35 simulator study used physiological, cognitive, and eye-tracking data from pilots to predict workload, validated against workload ratings. Affective computing more broadly often uses multimodal data, including physiological signals such as EEG/ECG alongside visual/audio/textual features; that supports Elata’s camera-first plus optional EEG strategy.
For NeuroFlight, practical metrics:

Metric	Source	Use in game
HR	rPPG	arousal trend, recovery
HRV/RMSSD	rPPG if stable	workload/recovery proxy
Respiration rate	rPPG/derived	calm recovery challenge
Signal quality	camera pipeline	trust indicator, gate scoring
Calm score	derived	UI feedback; avoid overclaiming
Arousal score	derived	adaptive difficulty
EEG alpha/beta	optional EEG	advanced mode only
Blink/PERCLOS	later	fatigue/attention metric
The app should not say “diagnosing attention” or “treating ADHD.” It should say “training calm focus under pressure.”
6. Asset strategy
For browser performance, prefer low-poly GLB/GLTF, heavily compressed textures, and instancing. The asset manager already uses GLTF loading and caching, so the repo is conceptually ready for real assets.
What to add first
For the desert map:
1 good Spitfire model, fixed;
canyon walls / mesa arches;
radar towers;
desert airstrip;
crashed aircraft;
smoke columns;
hangars;
anti-aircraft searchlights or beacons;
better rocks/dunes;
cloud layers.
For the ocean map:
islands with beaches;
lighthouses;
cargo ships;
sailboats;
buoys;
seaplane dock;
storm clouds;
whales only if they do not look goofy.
The current map registry already names many of these object types for the ocean map: rock, palm tree, pine tree, sailboat, cargo ship, whale, buoy, lighthouse. That suggests the system is there; the asset quality, placement, density, and rendering need work.
AI asset tools
Tripo3D is worth testing for background props, but I would be conservative with aircraft. AI-generated 3D assets often have bad topology, bad UVs, bloated meshes, weird materials, and unreliable scale/origin. Use AI for:
rocks;
ruins;
sci-fi towers;
hangars;
wrecks;
stylized terrain props.
Use hand-selected Sketchfab/Poly Haven/OpenGameArt/Kenney-style assets for:
aircraft;
cockpit elements;
UI icons;
repeated gameplay objects.
Pipeline:
Generate or download asset.
Open in Blender.
Set origin, scale, orientation.
Decimate if needed.
Bake/resize textures.
Export .glb.
Run gltf-transform optimize.
Test draw calls and frame rate in browser.
7. Report page redesign
The current post-flight page is actually one of the stronger parts, but it is too chart-heavy and too “research dashboard” for normal users.
Make the top of the report a readable scorecard:

Flight Complete

Focus Score: 74
Control Smoothness: B+
Stress Recovery: 18 sec
Best State: Calm Alert
Accuracy: 31%
Session Length: 1:30
Then below:
Flight Performance
Body Response
Focus & Recovery
Timeline
Research Notes / “What this means”
Keep the charts, but subordinate them. For demos, people need a simple “so what?” before they see a graph.
Your current report copy says “metrics drawn from affective computing research on pilots, truck drivers, and high-stakes operators.” That is the right direction, but it needs to become more specific and less sweeping. Say:

“This report compares flight control, aim stability, and recovery timing against your camera-derived physiological trends. These metrics are experimental and intended for biofeedback gameplay, not medical assessment.”
That is credible and defensible.
8. Engineering backlog, ranked
Sprint 1: polish and obvious fixes
Camera-first device flow.
Hide EEG panels unless EEG is active.
Fix Spitfire model loading and remove visible aircraft switching.
Add webcam preview and signal quality indicator.
Fix dogfight score integration.
Add click-outside-to-close modal behavior.
Improve typography and spacing.
Add difficulty selection.
Add session length presets: 60s, 90s, 3min.
Add hit markers, smoke, and better audio cues.
Sprint 2: gameplay feel
Aim assist cone and lock-on feedback.
Enemy behavior tuning; make it less easy after the first hit.
Better AI spawn/respawn positioning.
Assisted flight mode.
More meaningful health/damage states.
Add objectives beyond “shoot enemy.”
Add low-altitude bonus and smooth-control bonus.
Add biofeedback modifier: calm-alert gives stable reticle or score multiplier.
Add post-session “best moment” replay marker.
Improve mobile/tablet control story or explicitly say desktop only for now.
Sprint 3: world/art
Replace procedural emptiness with authored landmark clusters.
Add environmental VFX: fog, clouds, smoke, contrails, sun glare.
Add map-specific color grading.
Optimize GLB assets.
Add object LOD or distance culling.
Add animated props: flags, radar dish, birds, smoke.
Add loading screen with sensor status.
Add map cards with real previews.
Add “training academy” theme instead of raw map selection.
Add an optional cockpit overlay.
Sprint 4: research-grade foundation
Define canonical experimental metrics: focus stability, arousal recovery, aim stability, control smoothness, workload proxy.
Add event-aligned analysis: shots, hits, turns, altitude changes, damage, recovery.
Add “camera confidence” weighting so bad rPPG does not produce misleading insights.
Export session JSON.
Add local-only session history.
Add consent/privacy screen.
Add non-medical disclaimer.
Add ADHD/autism-safe design review.
Add reduced-motion and sensory-friendly mode.
Add configurable reward intensity for children/neurodivergent users.
9. Specific research direction for neurodivergent children
Long term, I would not make the first child/neurodivergence version a dogfight. Combat is exciting, but for ADHD/autism positioning it creates avoidable problems: violence, overstimulation, frustration, and regulatory sensitivity.
Better future mode:

NeuroFlight: Sky Trainer
The child flies through floating paths, collects stars, stabilizes clouds, rescues lost drones, or lands at islands. Difficulty adapts to:
control smoothness;
response inhibition;
sustained attention;
recovery after mistakes;
breathing regularity;
session completion.
Use dogfight as the adult/demo/high-arousal mode. Use “Sky Trainer” as the attention-training mode.
This fits the serious-games literature better. Reviews of pediatric ADHD game interventions increasingly point to multimodal designs, neurofeedback, exercise/VR, and game dynamics as potentially useful, but not settled enough to make hard clinical claims. For autism, designs like mobile AR neurofeedback games are emerging, but still small-sample and exploratory; one 2025 Eggly paper, for example, involved iterative design with experts and small field studies with autistic children.

10. The art direction I would choose
For the next version, I would choose:
“Calm aviation training simulator; Cold War instrument panel meets Apple biofeedback.”
Not cute. Not too medical. Not too cyberpunk. Not a generic WebGL toy.
The emotional target should be: serious, beautiful, controlled, a little heroic. The old pilot training school, rebuilt in the browser with biometrics.

That gives Elata a proper flagship: not just “we can read signals,” but “we can turn human state into useful, beautiful software.”
for the high-level direction of ChatGPT, I like it, but I'm glad to introduce you to you, but for the first pass at this, what I need your help with is just how to make the game better and things that are very high ROI and just make the game nicer to look at, better to use, everything like that. And I think the big unknown question for me is I need to find a way to get good assets put in the game and make it look better, better plane assets, better maps. It needs to still work in browser, so I mean, I'm open to creative common assets. There's also this tool I've seen called Tripo, where you can just AI generate assets. I think we do want to change the look of the game to be less like military looking. We want it to look more like a game kids would play. It should maybe be more friendly and Pixar-ish while still, you know, somewhat having a biplane. It needs to be more kid-friendly looking. It shouldn't look as serious. It needs to be like, not a literal therapeutic tool, but it needs to look more like something normal people would use and want to mess around with, and then they get some kind of session for their ADHD. And we do want to consider the overall mechanisms we would use for determining like, in-app biometric performance, and then also we want to consider the biometric angle and how people can actually see that in flight and change their performance and maybe get something like an indicator to do some kind of breathing exercise. Having said all of that is overall a bit out of here, I'm just giving you this context early. What's overall more useful is we need to just make the map look better. Right now, this looks pretty, looks pretty empty. It looks pretty plain. It needs to look lush and beautiful, and I just don't know 3JS that well. So your main initial app to help me is the ask I have of you to help me is I need your help initially just making the overall game performance, maps, look of the assets, like way better. I know that I can do the other stuff independently, like the theming. So that's kind of my thoughts now. So how do you recommend approaching the assets I'm going to use in this game? And maybe you could look online a bit too.
Thought for 7m 12s
Yes. For the first pass, I would narrow the work to one goal:
Make NeuroFlight look like a charming browser flight game, not a sparse neurotech demo.

Do not begin by redesigning all the biometrics, modes, scoring, or therapeutic framing. Those matter later. The highest-ROI first move is: one friendly plane, one beautiful map, one coherent asset style, better atmospheric effects, and enough visual density that the world no longer feels empty.

The current repo is already structured in a way that makes this feasible. The game is a Three.js/React browser simulator with procedural environments, EEG/rPPG hooks, post-flight analytics, and Web Audio; it is not a Unity-scale engine, but it is enough for a polished stylized web game. The maps are currently data-driven through scatter layers; for example, the desert and ocean maps define asset types, counts, radii, minimum distances, scale ranges, and a ground plane. The asset manager is currently a straightforward GLTFLoader wrapper with caching and disposal; useful, but not yet an optimized production asset pipeline. The aircraft registry already expects external model paths and per-aircraft tuning, so replacing the military-ish Spitfire with a friendlier biplane is a contained change rather than a rewrite.

The core asset strategy
Use CC0 / permissive stylized assets as the base, then use Tripo only for custom hero/landmark props. Do not make Tripo the entire asset pipeline.
The mistake would be to mix realistic Sketchfab scans, AI-generated meshes, low-poly Kenney props, and military aircraft in one scene. That is how you get the “AI slop” feeling: not because AI was used, but because the visual grammar is incoherent. The game needs one consistent world language: storybook aviation, toy-like low-poly geometry, saturated but soft colors, rounded forms, puffy clouds, floating islands, windmills, balloons, friendly drones, and a biplane.

Think “Saturday morning flight adventure,” not “combat simulator.”

Recommended asset sources
Source	Use it for	Why
Kenney	UI, icons, low-poly props, simple environmental kits	Kenney states that all game assets on its asset pages are CC0/public domain and free for commercial projects; attribution is not required.
Quaternius	Stylized nature, islands, trees, buildings, ships, cute creatures, environmental props	Quaternius has highly coherent stylized packs; notably, its catalog includes a “Stylized Nature MegaKit,” “Ultimate Stylized Nature Pack,” “Ships Pack,” and other game-ready kits that are much closer to the kid-friendly direction than realistic scans.
Poly Haven	HDRIs, textures, occasional high-quality rocks/terrain references	Poly Haven is CC0 and provides HDRIs, textures, and 3D models; use it mainly for lighting, sky, and material reference rather than as the main low-poly world style.
Sketchfab	One-off aircraft or landmark candidates	Sketchfab has free downloadable 3D models under Creative Commons licenses, but licensing varies per asset, so this should be a selective source with manual license review.
Tripo	Custom biplane variants, floating landmarks, cloud temples, friendly airship, mascot-like drones	Tripo supports GLB/FBX/OBJ and other export formats; it also says paid subscribers receive commercial ownership/IP rights for generated models, while its own export guide says free-plan models do not support commercial use.
For legal sanity, prioritize CC0 wherever possible. Creative Commons’ CC0 deed says the work can be copied, modified, distributed, and used commercially without asking permission, though trademarks, publicity/privacy rights, and warranties are not covered. Use CC-BY only if you are willing to maintain a credits file. Avoid NC, ND, and SA assets for this app unless you have a very clear reason.
First visual direction
I would make the first polished map:
Sky Islands / Cloud Playground
This is much better than trying to make the desert pretty. The current desert aesthetic naturally reads as barren, military, and sparse. A kid-friendly aviation game wants verticality, color, landmarks, and whimsical navigation.
The first map should have:

Asset type	Examples
Hero aircraft	rounded low-poly biplane; big propeller; friendly paint scheme; no weapons emphasis
Sky geometry	puffy cloud clusters, cloud arches, cloud tunnels, soft fog layers
Landmarks	floating islands, windmills, lighthouse, hot air balloons, observatory, rainbow gate, small village
Navigation objects	rings, stars, checkpoints, glowing thermals, gentle wind streams
Background life	birds, whales below, boats, kites, balloons
Feedback VFX	contrail, propeller blur, speed streaks, soft hit/collect particles
Biofeedback visual layer	breathing ring, calm-focus glow, heart-synced pulse; subtle, not medical
This immediately solves the “empty map” problem because clouds and floating islands give you density without requiring huge terrain meshes.
Do not start with five maps
Build one beautiful vertical slice. One map. One plane. One enemy/drone. One polished route. That is the right first pass.
The current MapRegistry already scatters assets by type, count, radius, and scale range. Keep that mechanism for background filler, but add a second concept: authored landmark clusters. Random scatter is fine for rocks; it is poor for beauty. Beauty comes from composition.

Add something like this conceptually:

type LandmarkCluster = {
  id: string;
  position: [number, number, number];
  radius: number;
  assets: Array<{
    type: string;
    offset: [number, number, number];
    scale: number;
    rotationY?: number;
  }>;
};
Then a map becomes:
{
  id: 'sky_islands',
  name: 'Sky Islands',
  environmentPresetId: 'storybookSky',
  playerSpawn: [0, 220, 500],

  landmarkClusters: [
    cloudArchStart,
    floatingWindmillIsland,
    balloonField,
    lighthouseIsland,
    cloudTunnel,
    friendlyAirship,
  ],

  scatterLayers: [
    { type: 'small_cloud', count: 180, radius: 7000, minDistance: 80, scaleRange: [8, 30] },
    { type: 'bird', count: 40, radius: 5000, minDistance: 120, scaleRange: [1, 3] },
    { type: 'tiny_island', count: 25, radius: 6500, minDistance: 300, scaleRange: [10, 35] },
  ],
}
That lets you preserve procedural variety while making the map feel designed.
The asset pipeline I would use
The pipeline should be boring and repeatable:
Download or generate the asset.
Open it in Blender.
Normalize scale, origin, rotation, and material names.
Delete hidden junk, cameras, lights, duplicate meshes, and unused materials.
Export as .glb.
Inspect and optimize with gltf-transform.
Put it into public/assets/....
Register it in an asset manifest.
Test frame rate and draw calls in the browser.
Use .glb as the normal runtime format. Tripo’s own format guide calls GLB its default export format and describes it as a self-contained binary format with textures/materials in a single file for WebGL and mobile AR workflows. Three.js’s GLTFLoader also directly supports Draco, KTX2, and Meshopt decoding hooks, which is exactly what you need once assets get larger.
For optimization, use glTF Transform. Its docs describe it as a JavaScript/TypeScript glTF 2.0 SDK and CLI for reading, editing, bundling, splitting, and optimizing existing glTF models.

Example commands:

npx @gltf-transform/cli inspect public/assets/aircraft/biplane/source.glb

npx @gltf-transform/cli optimize \
  public/assets/aircraft/biplane/source.glb \
  public/assets/aircraft/biplane/biplane.optimized.glb \
  --texture-compress webp \
  --texture-size 1024
If you use Meshopt compression, wire the decoder into GLTFLoader. If you use Draco, wire DRACOLoader. Do not just dump compressed models into public/assets and hope Three loads them; Three’s docs are explicit that these loaders are required for compressed glTF extensions.
Performance rules for NeuroFlight
For a browser game, the danger is not one big asset; it is death by 500 cute props.
Use this as a first budget:

Asset class	Target
Hero plane	5k–15k triangles
Enemy/friendly drone	2k–8k triangles
Landmark island	5k–20k triangles
Small repeated props	100–1,000 triangles
Texture size	512 or 1024; avoid 4K
Materials per prop	1–3
Total first map download	ideally under 15–25 MB before caching
Repeated objects	instanced, not individually cloned
For repeated clouds, trees, balloons, rocks, birds, rings, and small islands, use THREE.InstancedMesh. Three’s docs describe InstancedMesh as the right class when rendering many objects with the same geometry and material but different transforms, specifically because it reduces draw calls and improves rendering performance.
This matters because the current map setup already uses counts like 250 rocks, 100 cacti, 65 palms, and so on. That is exactly the kind of structure that should become instanced rendering rather than many independent meshes.

Tripo: useful, but only with a cleanup gate
Tripo is promising for fast custom assets, especially because it exports GLB and FBX and supports commercial rights on paid plans. But I would treat every Tripo result as a draft, not a game-ready asset.
Use Tripo for:

custom floating islands;
a friendly airship;
cloud arch landmarks;
toy-like observatory towers;
mascot drones;
whimsical hangars;
stylized biplane variants.
Do not rely on Tripo for:
your whole environment pack;
dozens of small props;
final topology without inspection;
assets with uncertain IP references;
anything prompt-based on a living studio’s exact style or identifiable copyrighted characters.
Good prompt direction:
“Stylized low-poly toy biplane for a children’s browser game, rounded shapes, oversized propeller, cheerful colors, simple geometry, clean UVs, no weapons, game-ready, low polygon count, GLB export.”
For landmarks:
“Floating grassy island with a tiny windmill, rounded low-poly storybook style, bright but soft colors, simple trees, clean silhouette, game-ready low-poly mesh, no text, no logos.”
For clouds:
“Cluster of puffy stylized clouds, low-poly soft rounded forms, suitable for browser game, simple white material, no complex transparent textures.”
Then always run the result through Blender and gltf-transform. If it has weird topology, bad origin, broken normals, or too many materials, reject it. The cost of debugging bad 3D assets inside Three.js is higher than the cost of regenerating or simplifying the model.
Concrete first-pass asset list
For the first polished build, I would create this exact asset manifest:
export const ASSET_CATALOG = {
  aircraft: {
    player_biplane: '/assets/aircraft/player_biplane/player_biplane.optimized.glb',
    friendly_drone: '/assets/aircraft/friendly_drone/friendly_drone.optimized.glb',
  },

  landmarks: {
    floating_windmill_island: '/assets/landmarks/floating_windmill_island.glb',
    lighthouse_island: '/assets/landmarks/lighthouse_island.glb',
    cloud_arch: '/assets/landmarks/cloud_arch.glb',
    balloon_cluster: '/assets/landmarks/balloon_cluster.glb',
    sky_observatory: '/assets/landmarks/sky_observatory.glb',
  },

  props: {
    small_cloud: '/assets/props/cloud_small.glb',
    medium_cloud: '/assets/props/cloud_medium.glb',
    tree_round: '/assets/props/tree_round.glb',
    wind_ring: '/assets/props/wind_ring.glb',
    star_pickup: '/assets/props/star_pickup.glb',
    kite: '/assets/props/kite.glb',
    bird: '/assets/props/bird.glb',
  },

  vfx: {
    propeller_blur: '/assets/vfx/propeller_blur.png',
    contrail_sprite: '/assets/vfx/contrail.png',
    sparkle_sprite: '/assets/vfx/sparkle.png',
  },
};
This is enough to make the game look 5x better without expanding scope.
Specific map composition
Replace the current “wide empty terrain” feel with a guided flight path.
Opening 10 seconds
Player starts behind the biplane, already above a beautiful cloud layer. A large friendly ring floats ahead. A windmill island sits left of the path. Balloons drift in the distance. The game immediately looks alive.
Middle 30 seconds
The player flies through a sequence:
cloud arch;
balloon field;
floating island chain;
wind tunnel;
friendly drone encounter;
lighthouse island.
Final 20 seconds
The sky opens. Larger clouds and a bright sun create a pretty vista. The session ends with a gentle report transition.
This lets you keep the dogfight code under the hood, but visually it becomes a friendly flight challenge. The enemy can become a practice drone instead of a Spitfire. Hits can look like “tagging” or “tracking” rather than shooting.

What to change in the existing code first
1. Replace the default aircraft
Current default is Spitfire. Change visible default to player_biplane.
Keep the old registry if you want, but hide military aircraft from the UI. The aircraft registry is already model-path driven, so the first pass is mostly asset replacement plus scale/rotation/tuning.

2. Add optimized loader support
Right now the AssetManager uses plain GLTFLoader; that is fine for prototypes but not enough once you start importing real assets. Add support for Draco/Meshopt/KTX2 before you grow the asset library.
3. Add an asset manifest
Do not hardcode asset paths in scattered map files. Create a single asset catalog so you can swap packs easily.
4. Split map objects into three categories
Category	Rendering strategy
Hero objects	normal loaded GLB
Landmark clusters	normal GLB; limited count
Repeated filler	InstancedMesh
5. Add environmental polish before adding mechanics
Immediate visual wins:
gradient sky;
atmospheric fog;
puffy cloud layer;
contrail behind player;
propeller blur;
sun glow;
soft particles when passing rings;
animated balloons;
birds as tiny silhouettes;
water shimmer if using islands.
These are cheap and emotionally powerful.
The highest-ROI online asset shopping path
I would do this in order:
Kenney first for UI, icons, low-poly starter props, and anything you need to prototype quickly; the licensing is clean and commercial use is allowed under CC0.
Quaternius second for the actual map look; its stylized nature, ships, buildings, and cute asset packs are the closest fit for “friendly browser game.”
Tripo third for 3–5 custom identity assets; do not generate 100 things. Generate the memorable stuff: the biplane, cloud arch, floating observatory, friendly airship, and maybe mascot drone.
Sketchfab only for targeted gaps; use it when you need a specific plane or prop and can verify the license. Sketchfab explicitly offers free Creative Commons models, but the license is per model.
Poly Haven for lighting and textures, not as the dominant visual style; it is high quality and CC0, but much of it trends more realistic than the toy-like direction.
My proposed first sprint
Goal: one beautiful map, one friendly biplane, one improved flight loop.
Day 1: art lock
Choose the target look:
“storybook sky islands with a friendly biplane.”
Create a small moodboard and asset list. Do not touch the biometrics yet.
Day 2: asset sourcing
Download:
one biplane candidate;
3 cloud models;
3 island/terrain props;
trees;
windmill;
lighthouse;
balloons;
birds;
rings/checkpoints.
Generate with Tripo only if no good biplane or landmark exists.
Day 3: asset cleanup
Normalize all assets in Blender. Export GLBs. Run gltf-transform inspect and optimize.
Day 4: renderer integration
Add:
asset manifest;
loader decoder support;
instanced clouds/trees/rings;
one new sky_islands map.
Day 5: composition pass
Place 6 authored landmark clusters. Add background scatter only after the main route looks good.
Day 6: juice pass
Add:
propeller blur;
contrail;
ring pass particles;
soft ambient sound;
altitude fog;
camera smoothing.
Day 7: playtest and cut
Remove anything that hurts frame rate or looks inconsistent. Keep the map dense near the player path; do not fill the entire world uniformly.
The important call
Do not try to make the existing desert dogfight prettier first. Make a new friendly map that proves the direction.
The first milestone should be:

A child-friendly biplane flying through a beautiful sky-island course with clouds, balloons, rings, and soft biofeedback glow; runs smoothly in browser; no military tone.
Once that exists, the research and biometric mechanics have a much better surface to attach to. Right now the game’s limiting factor is not the idea; it is the emotional first impression. A single coherent art pass will do more than a dozen small UI fixes.
Okay, so I like your approach and the research you came to regarding getting assets. I think all of those are good sources. Having said, we do have two existing maps. So what we want to do is to have those two existing maps, which are the ocean type map and the desert type map look much better. So what I want you to do now is go into deep research. I want you to visit all of these sources. I want you to find as many sources as possible and links that I can use to download or get them. I will likely paste this into cursor or codex later. And I'm initially just going to have it download mass amounts of these assets and then I can test how they look in the game. So what you need to do is you need to for now, I want you to do full deep research, look everywhere, find as many resourced assets, prioritize ones that are well-rating, will work well in 3js, won't be too heavy, they'll work with the flows that we have here. And I need you to give me like huge extensive lists that I can go through and test how well they work within the game. So you're gonna need, again, look very clearly, again at the source code. You can look at the original code for the app. And we need to kind of like I want you to do the research and also rank them by how useful you think they will be. Now for the most part, we just need one good-looking plane for this app that looks good. It works with our vibe we're going for. I think it potentially could be very good later on to have different things in the sky that are floating, whether they be clouds, hot air balloons, different things floating around in either of them. Things like that that can go in the sky and just have small movement or even be somewhat stationary, could be good. Things that can go on the ground and add more depth, maybe we could have taller things. The big issue now is that you fly around. There's not much difference between being higher or lower. There's a small amount of things on the ground. There's only one enemy. So things that can give that illusion of height and depth, especially the way maybe like Disney does in their theme parks. I know they do things like that to create those illusions. Yeah, I really think we mainly need assets for things on the ground and then flying type things. They have to work very well with 3js. And then yeah, I also think you should give me some prompts that I could put into TRIPO to create some... I would say for TRIPO the main emphasis should be things that go on the ground that are nice looking assets that won't be too huge. So I want you to research this extensively. Give me these huge list of Creative Commons assets, sources, get as much as possible and try to rank how likely you think they will be to work. Seemingly the good typology and if there's any criteria you can use to get further information, again, as much as I want you to rank them. I also want a large volume of assets that I can personally go through. Then yeah, the aerial aspect will be very important too. So yeah, if there's things that can go inside, if there's things like rings that we could use on future sessions, like having people drive through rings, if there's any other assets that will just round this out and improve the overall feeling. Then secondarily, if there's any other 3JS add-ons you can find that would just improve the game and this can be more like environmental things, that could be very useful. I was previously experimenting with atmospheric fog, a pretty good amount within 3JS. I found that it just fogged out the entire interface and mostly didn't work. But having said, things like that could be good, things like animations, things like movement to make it feel alive. So that's the idea. I want you to go in, give me a very, very long, detailed first pass at all these things, you should rank them. But the main criteria here is give me volume. I want a lot of things that I can go in to go in and test with. Use the criteria I gave you and the game aspects. Definitely strongly consider what's in the existing game. Yeah, and that's the idea. You need to give me lots of results for this.
